Adds httpChecksum trait support (#843)
awslabs/smithy: docs/source/1.0/spec/core/behavior-traits.rst

            input: PutSomethingInput,
            output: PutSomethingOutput
        }

.. _httpChecksum-trait:

----------------------
``httpChecksum`` trait
----------------------

Summary
    Indicates that an operation's HTTP request or response supports checksum

>     validation. At least one of request or response checksum properties must

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    validation. At least one of request or response checksum properties MUST
```

                    },
                    "output": {
                        "target": "smithy.example#PutSomethingOutput"
                    },
                    "traits": {
                        "smithy.api#httpChecksum": {
                            "request": [
                                { "algorithm": "sha256", "in": "header", "name": "x-checksum-sha256"},
                                { "algorithm": "crc32", "in": "header", "name": "x-checksum-crc32"}
                            ],
                            "response": [
                                { "algorithm": "sha256", "in": "header", "name": "x-checksum-sha256"},
                                { "algorithm": "crc32", "in": "header", "name": "x-checksum-crc32"}
                            ]
                        }
                    }
                }
            }
        }

.. _checksum-property:

HttpChecksumProperty structure
================================

``HttpChecksumProperty`` defines checksum validation behavior using the
following members:

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 10 10 80

    * - Property
      - Type
      - Description

>     * - algorithm

Author: I defined it to normalize the algorithm, and make it a little easier for clients/service to correctly map supported algorithm implementations.

      - ``string``
      - **Required**. The algorithm string represents a checksum algorithm
        supported for the HTTP request or response. A valid algorithm
        should follow ABNF:

        .. code-block:: abnf

            algorithms = 1*(lower-alpha / DIGIT)
            lower-alpha = %x61-7A

        That is, it should be comprised only of digits and lowercase letters.

    * - in
      - ``string``
      - **Required**. The location where checksum can be supplied. Valid values
        are:

>         * ``header`` - Indicates the checksum should be placed in an HTTP header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        * ``header`` - Indicates the checksum is placed in an HTTP header.
```

>         * ``trailer`` - Indicates the checksum should be placed in the `chunked trailer part`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        * ``trailer`` - Indicates the checksum is be placed in the `chunked trailer part`_
```

          of the body.

>         An algorithm may be supported at multiple locations. The first

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        An algorithm MAY be supported at multiple locations. The first
```

        supported ``in`` member value within the list of HttpChecksum property

>         takes precedence and SHOULD be used. See :ref:`here for more behavior

Reviewer: For links like this, I usually give more descriptive details about what's being referenced. You could even just do:

```
.. seealso::

    See :ref:`httpChecksum_trait_behavior` for more details.
```

        details <httpChecksum_trait_behavior>`.

    * - name
      - ``string``
      - **Required**. The name used as a header or trailer name for a checksum
        type. Recommended ABNF for name is as follows:

        .. code-block:: abnf

            name = lower-alpha *(["-"](lower-alpha / DIGIT))
            lower-alpha = %x61-7A

>         That is, it should start with a lowercase letter followed by any

Reviewer: Can you give some context on why it's much more restrictive than the field-name production in [RFC 7230, section 3](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7230#section-3.2)? I'm assuming it's because headers are case-insensitive, and we want to normalize it here?

Author: Correct, this is to normalize the name and stay consistent.

        number of lowercase letters, digits, or non-sequential hyphens.

        A member with the :ref:`httpHeader-trait` or :ref:`httpPrefixHeaders-trait`
        MAY conflict with a ``httpChecksum`` header name, allowing a

>         checksum to be supplied directly. See :ref:`here for more behavior

Reviewer: Same comment above -- better to include the title and use `seealso` admonitions.

        details <httpChecksum_trait_header_conflict_behavior>`.

.. _chunked trailer part: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7230#section-4.1.2

.. _httpChecksum_trait_behavior:

HttpChecksum Behavior
=====================

.. rubric:: Client Behavior

> If the ``httpChecksum`` trait has a modeled ``request`` section, for HTTP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the ``httpChecksum`` trait has a modeled ``request`` section for the HTTP
```

> request, the client MUST compute the request payload checksum, using an

Reviewer: I thought it was only if there's an `httpChecksumRequired` trait?

Author: Thanks for catching this. Updated to `SHOULD`.

algorithm defined within the request section. The computed checksum SHOULD
be supplied at the first supported checksum location as per the order of
:ref:`checksum properties<checksum-property>` defined within the request
section.

> If the resolved location is ``header``, client MUST put the checksum into the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the location is ``header``, the client MUST put the checksum into the
```

HTTP request headers. If the resolved location is ``trailer``, the client MUST
put the checksum into the `chunked trailer part`_ of the body. The header or

> trailer name to use with an algorithm, location is defined by the ``name``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
trailer name to use with an algorithm location is defined by the ``name``
```

member of the :ref:`checksum property<checksum-property>`.

> If the ``httpChecksum`` trait has a modeled ``response`` section, for HTTP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the ``httpChecksum`` trait has a modeled ``response`` section for the HTTP
```

response, the client MUST look for a supported checksum at all supported
locations as per the defined checksum properties. If a checksum is found, the
client MUST validate the received checksum value by computing the corresponding
checksum of the received payload.

.. _httpChecksum_trait_header_conflict_behavior:

An operation's ``input``, ``output``, and ``error`` structures MAY contain a
member bound to an HTTP header matching the header or trailer name defined

> within the ``httpChecksum`` trait. For an HTTP request, if customer provides value

Reviewer: Can you frame this so it's not about customers, clients, requests, or responses, but rather just matter of fact: If the HTTP header corresponding to a checksum is set explicitly, then the implementation MUST use the explicitly set header and skip computing a payload checksum.

for an input shape member bound to an HTTP header matching the constructed
header or trailer name, the client MUST use the customer provided value as is,
and skip computing request payload checksum.

.. _chunked trailer part: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7230#section-4.1.2

.. rubric:: Service Behavior

> If the ``httpChecksum`` trait has a modeled ``request`` section, for HTTP request,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the ``httpChecksum`` trait has a modeled ``request`` section for the HTTP request,
```

> the service SHOULD validate the received checksum by computing corresponding

Reviewer: MUST?

checksum of the request payload to ensure data integrity.

> If the ``httpChecksum`` trait models a ``response`` section, for HTTP response,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the ``httpChecksum`` trait models a ``response`` section for the HTTP response,
```

the service SHOULD send at least one supported payload checksum at the first

> supported location for the checksum algorithm. The ``name`` defined for the

Reviewer: Is the last sentence needed here? Seems like it was already defined earlier in the trait.

checksum algorithm and location within ``the httpChecksum`` trait MUST be used
to place the checksum.

.. _checksum_trait_with_checksum_required:

Behavior with HttpChecksumRequired
----------------------------------

> When both the ``httpChecksum`` trait with a modeled ``request`` section, and

Reviewer: Earlier in the doc, I think it's stated that the checksum is always required. I also don't think `httpChecksum` requires that `httpChecksum` to be present, which this seems to imply.

Author: Corrected this as stated in earlier comment.  Checksum is only required when `htttpChecksumRequired` trait is present.

the :ref:`httpChecksumRequired <httpChecksumRequired-trait>` trait are applied
on an operation, the client MUST prefer using a checksum algorithm modeled for
request in the ``httpChecksum`` trait over an MD5 digest, and place checksum
as per the client behavior defined in the
:ref:`httpChecksum trait behavior<httpChecksum_trait_behavior>` section.

> The service MUST accept a checksum value received as per the ``httpChecksum``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The service MUST require that a checksum value is received as defined in the ``httpChecksum``
```

Author: Service may use md5 digest to satisfy data integrity requirements. Operations modeled with `httpChecksumRequired` default to sending md5 digest. 

The intent here is to have services support checksum values defined within `httpChecksum` trait to satisfy data integrity requirements, and not rely solely on md5.

> trait's request property, to satisfy checksum validation requirements for the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
trait's request property to satisfy checksum validation requirements for the
```
